# Notes
1. For `offset` example, the use case could be, say you stopped your traffic to your nginx an hour ago. (You can use `offset` to go 1hr back in time and start quering as though that is current time).
1. Important of Logging from KV
1. NOTE about Setup (single command vm via vagrant) (nginx, k6, promtail)
1. Pattern parser for error logs (which is in different format)
1. Logql tutorial is hard compared to metrics, coz unlike metrics no single acceptable format for logs. And tons of applications with wide variety of log formats(unlike examples node exporter)
1. Wait. But just grep <pattern> | wc won’t be enough?. No. Coz there is time(log lines are no longer static). This is one of the thing that differentiates log processing from simple static text processing
1. Another challenge. Logging and log lines tends to change more frequently than metrics. Breaking all the dashboards (structured, consistent and backward compatible logging is important)
1. Ngrok and k6 cloud for advanced use cases and for more interesting data
1. Using file name as label in the logql is not the good practice. Coz that would break if app is running in HA. say multiple pods or replicas

# Agenda
1. Context and history about logging, why I love logging, challenges to work with logs compared to metrics. Important goal of this writing is using LogQL on some "real logs" with some "real examples" and lets you play with it.
2. Note about setup (why choosing nginx? (common app logs), single VM setup (no need to struggle with docker compose hostname issue)). Just `vagrant up`
3. Quick note on labels, time series and how Loki store your logs? (index only labels, store log as chunks)
4. LogQL - Log Queries with examples
   a. Label matcher (stream selector)
   b. Line filter
   c. Label filter
   d. Examples with some different operators.
   e. Examples with some built-in functions. (duration)
   f. Using IP matcher.
5. LogQL - Metric Queries with examples
   a. Note on grouping time series. (by and without)
   b. Two types of grouping (using log lines itself as samples and extracted label value as sample)
   c. Using log lines itself as samples (count_over_time, bytes_over_time)
   d. Everything else (other aggregations with unwrap)
   e. Include advanced examples like quantile.
